PEP 793: PyModExport: A new entry point for C extension modules (#4435)
python/peps: peps/pep-0793.rst

``PyModuleDef.m_slots`` array.
They may not have a ``NULL`` value (instead, the slot can be omitted entirely).

Note that currently, for modules created from a *spec* (that is, using
``PyModule_FromDefAndSpec``), the ``PyModuleDef.m_name`` member is ignored
and the name from the spec is used instead.
All API proposed in this document creates modules from a *spec*, and it will
ignore ``Py_mod_name`` in the same way.
The slot will be optional, but extensions will be strongly encouraged to
include it for the benefit of future APIs, external tooling,
and debugging/introspection.

Bits & Pieces
-------------

A ``PyMODEXPORT_FUNC`` macro will be added, similar to the ``PyMODINIT_FUNC``
macro but with ``PyModuleDef_Slot *`` as the return type.

A ``PyModule_GetStateSize`` function will be added to retrieve the size set
by ``Py_mod_state_size`` or ``PyModuleDef.m_size``.
Since the result may be -1 (for single-phase-init modules), it will be output
via a pointer; the function will return 0 on success and -1 on failure:

.. code-block:: c

    int PyModule_GetStateSize(PyObject *, Py_ssize_t *result);

.. _pep793-api-summary:

New API summary
---------------

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Python will load a new module export hook, with two variants:

.. code-block:: c

    PyModuleDef_Slot *PyModExport_<NAME>(PyObject *spec);
    PyModuleDef_Slot *PyModExportU_<ENCODED_NAME>(PyObject *spec);

```

PEP: 793
Title: PyModExport: A new entry point for C extension modules
Author: Petr Viktorin <encukou@gmail.com>
Discussions-To: https://discuss.python.org/t/84498
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Created: 23-May-2025
Python-Version: 3.15
Post-History: 23-May-2025

Abstract
========

In this PEP, we propose a new entry point for C extension modules, by which
one can define a module using an array of ``PyModuleDef_Slot`` structures
without an enclosing ``PyModuleDef`` structure.
This allows extension authors to avoid using a statically allocated
``PyObject``, lifting the most common obstacle to making one compiled library
file usable with both regular and free-threaded builds of CPython.

To make this viable, we also specify new module slot types to replace
``PyModuleDef``'s fields, and to allow adding a *token* similar to the
``Py_tp_token`` used for type objects.

> We also add API for defining modules from slots dynamically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also add an API for defining modules from slots dynamically.
```

Background & Motivation
=======================

The memory layout of Python objects differs between regular and free-threading
builds.
So, an ABI that supports both regular and free-threading builds cannot include
the current ``PyObject`` memory layout. To stay compatible with existing ABI
(and API), it cannot support statically allocated Python objects.

There is one type of object that is needed in most extension modules
and is allocated statically in virtually cases: the ``PyModuleDef`` returned
from the module export hooks (that is, ``PyInit_*`` functions).

Module export hooks (``PyInit_*`` functions) can return two kinds of objects:

1. A fully initialized module object (for so-called
   *single-phase initialization*). This was the only option in 3.4 and below.
   Modules created this way have surprising (but backwards-compatible)
   behaviour around multiple interpreters or repeated loading.
   (Specifically, the *contents* of such a module's ``__dict__`` are shared
   across all instances of the module object.)

>    The modules to return is typically created using the ``PyModule_Create``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The module returned is typically created using the ``PyModule_Create``
```

   function, which requires a statically allocated (or at least long-lived)
   ``PyModuleDef`` struct.

   It is possible to bypass this using the lower-level ``PyModule_New*`` API.

>    This does not need ``PyModuleDef``, but offers much less functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This avoids the need for ``PyModuleDef``, but offers much less functionality.
```

This unnecessary and fragile extra work highlights the underlying design issue:
Python has no way to get information about an extension
before the extension can, potentially, fully initialize itself.

Rationale
=========

For avoiding the module export hook requiring a statically allocated
``PyObject*``, two options come to mind:

- Returning a *dynamically* allocated object, whose ownership is transferred
  to the interpreter. This stucture could be very similar to the existing
  ``PyModuleDef``, since it needs to contain the same data.
  Unlike the existing ``PyModuleDef``, this one would need to be
  reference-counted so that it both outlives “its” module and does not leak.

- Adding a new export hook, which does not return a ``PyObject*``.

  This was considered already for Python 3.5 in :pep:`489`, but rejected:

    Keeping only the PyInit hook name, even if it’s not entirely appropriate
    for exporting a definition, yielded a much simpler solution.

  Alas, after a decade of fixing the implications of this choice, the solution
  is no longer simple.

A new hook will also allow Python to avoid the second issue mentioned in
Motivation -- the interpreter switch.

> Effectivelly, it will add a new phase to multi-phase initialization, in which

Author: ```suggestion
Effectively, it will add a new phase to multi-phase initialization, in which
```

Python can check whether the module is compatible.

Using slots without a wrapper struct
------------------------------------

> The existing ``PyModuleDef`` is struct with some fixed fields and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The existing ``PyModuleDef`` is a struct with some fixed fields and
```

a “slots” array.
Unlike slots, the fixed fields cannot be individually deprecated and replaced.
This proposal does away with fixed fields and proposes using a slots array
directly, without a wrapper struct.

> The ``PyModuleDef_Slot`` struct does have some downsides to fixed fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``PyModuleDef_Slot`` struct does have some downsides compared to fixed fields.
```

We believe these are fixable, but leave that out of scope of this PEP
(see “Improving slots in general” in the Possible Future Directions section).

Tokens
------

A static ``PyModuleDef`` has another purpose besides describing
how a module should be created.
As a statically allocated singleton that remains attached to the module object,
it allows extension authors to check whether a given Python module is “theirs”:
if a module object has a known ``PyModuleDef``, its module state will have
a known memory layout.

An analogous issue was solved for types by adding ``Py_tp_token``.
This proposal adds the same mechanism to modules.

Unlike types, the import mechanism often has a pointer that's known to be
suitable as a token value; in these cases it can provide a default token.

> Thus, module tokens do not need a varaint of the inelegant ``Py_TP_USE_SPEC``.

Author: ```suggestion
Thus, module tokens do not need a variant of the inelegant ``Py_TP_USE_SPEC``.
```

> Specification
> =============
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: To contrast the "dynamic creation" subhead below
```suggestion
Specification
=============

Static creation
----------------

```

Author: The proper title for this subsection would be `PyModExport: A new entry point for C extension modules`. But it's already under that heading :)
This is the main thing; the rest is supporting API.

Reviewer 2: Fair enough, but I admit to getting a bit lost when navigating between the sections. I'd argue even just "The PyModExport hook" or etc would help.

> When importing an extension module, Python will newly look for an export hook

Reviewer: Putting "newly" in this position in the sentence sounds weird. But it is clear what it means ... "now" would sound better.

like this:

.. code-block:: c

>     PyModuleDef_Slot *PyModExport_<NAME>(PyObject *spec);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    PyModuleDef_Slot *PyModExport_<NAME>(PyObject *spec);
    PyModuleDef_Slot *PyModExportU_<NAME>(PyObject *spec);
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion! I'll leave it for the API summary.

where ``<NAME>`` is the name of the module.
For non-ASCII names, it will instead look for ``PyModExportU_<NAME>``,
with ``<NAME>`` encoded as for existing ``PyInitU_*`` hooks
(that is, *punycode*-encoded with hyphens replaced by underscores).

If not found, the import will continue as in previous Python versions (that is,
by looking up a ``PyInit_*`` or ``PyInitU_*`` function).

If found, Python will call the hook with the appropriate
``importlib.machinery.ModuleSpec`` object as *spec*.

> To support duck-typing, extensions should not type-check this object, and

Author: “Extension” could mean the extension author, extension code, the shared library, the module object -- take your pick.
In *this* instance, any of that is appropriate, so I don't want to use a more specific term.

and constant until runtime shutdown.
(We expect functions to export a static constant, or one of several constants
chosen depending on, for example, ``Py_Version``. Dynamic behaviour should
generally happen in the ``Py_mod_create`` and ``Py_mod_exec`` functions.)

Dynamic creation
----------------

A new function will be added to create a module from an array of slots:

.. code-block:: c

    PyObject *PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec(PyModuleDef_Slot *slots, PyObject *spec)

The *slots* argument must point to an array of ``PyModuleDef_Slot`` structures,
terminated by a slot with ``slot=0`` (typically written as ``{0}`` in C).
There are no required slots.
(So, the minimal input contains only the terminator; *slots* may not be
``NULL``.)

The *spec* argument is a duck-typed ModuleSpec-like object, meaning that any
attributes defined for ``importlib.machinery.ModuleSpec`` have matching
semantics.
The ``name`` attribute is required, but this limitation may be lifted in the
future.
The ``name`` will be used *instead of* the ``Py_mod_name`` slot (just like
``PyModule_FromDefAndSpec`` ignores ``PyModuleDef.m_name``).

> To simplify the implementation, the slots arrays for both
> ``PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec`` and the new export hook will only allow up to one
> ``Py_mod_exec`` slot.
> (Arrays in ``PyModuleDef.m_slots`` may have more; this will not change.)

Author: Well, that *is* the main argument. I don't want to maintain the code for that :)
I can do what I did for other minor inconveniences:
```suggestion
To simplify the implementation, the slots arrays for both
``PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec`` and the new export hook will only allow up to one
``Py_mod_exec`` slot.
(Arrays in ``PyModuleDef.m_slots`` may have more; this will not change.)
This limitation might be lifted in the future.
```
FWIW, I'd like to lift the *other* limitations in this PEP -- in dedicated PRs with loads of tests. This limitation isn't worth it IMO.

> (Arrays in ``PyModuleDef.m_slots`` may have more; this will not change.)

Reviewer 2: Running `rg -F "{Py_mod_exec," --count` on a directory containing the top 15,000 PyPI projects, there are 774 files with matches across 235 projects. Every single file only contains a single instance. Running the same on CPython, the only files with multiple exec slots are `Modules\_testmultiphase.c`, `Modules\_hashopenssl.c:8`, and `Modules\_ssl.c:8`.

I would argue 3 instances out of 774+97 (0.35%) is quite rare!

> (Arrays in ``PyModuleDef.m_slots`` may have more; this will not change.)

Author: Thanks! I linked your survey in a footnote :)

For modules created without a ``PyModuleDef``, the ``Py_mod_create`` function
will be called with ``NULL`` for the second argument.
(In the future, if we find a use case for passing the input slots array, a new
slot with an updated signature can be added.)

Unlike the ``PyModExport_*`` hook, the *slots* array may be changed or
destroyed after the ``PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec`` call.
(That is, Python must take a copy of all input data.)
As an exception, any ``PyMethodDef`` array given by ``Py_mod_methods``
must be statically allocated (or be otherwise guaranteed to outlive the
objects created from it). This limitation may be lifted in the future.

> A new function will be added to run the ``exec`` slot(s) for a module -- like
> ``PyModule_ExecDef``, but supporting modules created using slots,
> and not taking an explicit *def*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new function, ``PyModule_Exec``, will be added to run the ``exec`` slot(s) for a module.
This acts like ``PyModule_ExecDef``, but supports modules created using slots,
and does not take an explicit *def*:
```

.. code-block:: c

    int PyModule_Exec(PyObject *module)

Calling this is required to fully initialize a module.
``PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec`` will *not* run it (just like
``PyModule_FromDefAndSpec`` does not call ``PyModule_ExecDef``).

For modules created from a *def*, calling this is equivalent to
calling ``PyModule_ExecDef(module, PyModule_GetDef(module))``.

Tokens
------

Module objects will optionally store a “token”: a ``void*`` pointer
similar to ``Py_tp_token`` for types.

If specified, using a new ``Py_mod_token`` slot, the module token must:

> - outlive the module, so it’s not reused for something else while the module
>   exists; and
> - “belong” to the extension module where the module lives, so it will not
>   clash with other extensions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- outlive the module, so it's not reused for something else while the module
  exists; and
- "belong" to the extension module where the module lives, so it will not
  clash with other extension modules.
```

(Typically, it should point to a static constant.)

> Modules created using the new ``PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec`` or the new
> export hook can use a slot with a new ID, ``Py_mod_token``, to set the token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modules created using the ``PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec`` or the
``PyModExport_<NAME>`` export hook can use a new ``Py_mod_token`` slot
to set the token.
```

For modules created via the new export hook, the token
will be set to the address of the slots array by default.
(This does **not** apply to modules created by ``PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec``,
as that function's input might not outlive the module.)

The token will not be set for non-``PyModuleType`` instances.

A ``PyModule_GetToken`` function will be added to get the token.
Since the result may be ``NULL``, it will be passed via a pointer; the function
will return 0 on success and -1 on failure:

.. code-block:: c

    int PyModule_GetToken(PyObject *, void **token_p)

A new ``PyType_GetModuleByToken`` function will be added, with a signature
like ``PyType_GetModuleByDef`` but a ``void *token`` argument,
and the same behaviour except matching tokens, rather than only defs.

New slots
---------

For each field of the ``PyModuleDef`` struct, except ones from
``PyModuleDef_HEAD_INIT``, a new slot ID will be provided: ``Py_mod_name``,
``Py_mod_doc``, ``Py_mod_clear``, etc.
Slots related to the module state rather than the module object will
use a ``Py_mod_state_`` prefix.
See :ref:`pep793-api-summary` for a full list.

> All new slots -- these and ``Py_tp_token`` discussed above -- may not be
> repeated in the slots array, and may not be used in a
> ``PyModuleDef.m_slots`` array.
> They may not have a ``NULL`` value (instead, the slot can be omitted entirely).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All new slots defined in this PEP must only appear once in in the slots array,
and may not have a ``NULL`` value. All new slots are optional, thus may be
omitted entirely.
The new slots may not be used in a ``PyModuleDef.m_slots`` array, as the existing
members of ``PyModuleDef`` should be used instead.
```

Note that currently, for modules created from a *spec* (that is, using
``PyModule_FromDefAndSpec``), the ``PyModuleDef.m_name`` member is ignored
and the name from the spec is used instead.
All API proposed in this document creates modules from a *spec*, and it will
ignore ``Py_mod_name`` in the same way.

> The slot will be optional, but extensions will be strongly encouraged to
> include it for the benefit of future APIs, external tooling,
> and debugging/introspection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The slot will be optional, but extension modules are strongly encouraged to
include it for the benefit of future APIs, external tooling, debugging,
and introspection.
```

Bits & Pieces
-------------

A ``PyMODEXPORT_FUNC`` macro will be added, similar to the ``PyMODINIT_FUNC``
macro but with ``PyModuleDef_Slot *`` as the return type.

A ``PyModule_GetStateSize`` function will be added to retrieve the size set
by ``Py_mod_state_size`` or ``PyModuleDef.m_size``.
Since the result may be -1 (for single-phase-init modules), it will be output
via a pointer; the function will return 0 on success and -1 on failure:

.. code-block:: c

    int PyModule_GetStateSize(PyObject *, Py_ssize_t *result);

.. _pep793-api-summary:

New API summary
---------------

The following functions will be added:

.. code-block:: c

>     PyObject *PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec(PyModuleDef_Slot *, PyObject *spec)

Reviewer 2: The export hook is part of the API, but the functions are defined in extension modules. Worth including?
```suggestion
    PyModuleDef_Slot *PyModExport_<NAME>(PyObject *spec);
    PyObject *PyModule_FromSlotsAndSpec(PyModuleDef_Slot *, PyObject *spec)
```

    int PyModule_Exec(PyObject *)
    int PyModule_GetToken(PyObject *, void**)
    PyObject *PyType_GetModuleByToken(PyTypeObject *type, void *token)
    int PyModule_GetStateSize(PyObject *, Py_ssize_t *result);

A new macro will be added:

.. code-block:: c

    PyMODEXPORT_FUNC

And new slot types (``#define``\d names for small integers):

- ``Py_mod_name`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_name``)
- ``Py_mod_doc`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_doc``)
- ``Py_mod_state_size`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_size``)
- ``Py_mod_methods`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_methods``)
- ``Py_mod_state_traverse`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_traverse``)
- ``Py_mod_state_clear`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_clear``)
- ``Py_mod_state_free`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_free``)
- ``Py_mod_token`` (see above)

All this will be added to the Limited API.

Backwards Compatibility

> =======================

Reviewer 2: I think there should be greater emphasis on compatibility code for extension modules supporting older versions, but wanting to use the better/newer mechanism for 3.15+. Either in *Backwards Compatibility* or *How to Teach This*.

For instance, the multiple `Py_mod_exec` is solvable with a new function that calls all existing functions sequentially. Any suggested mechanisms `#if ...` for defining both a `PyInit` and `PyModExport` export hook? Anything that could go into pythoncapi-compat to make transition easier?

*def* to *slots* will be added to the documentation.

We'll rewrite the "Extending and Embedding" tutorial to use this.

Reference Implementation
========================

A draft implementation is available in a
`GitHub branch <https://github.com/python/cpython/compare/main...encukou:cpython:modexport#files_bucket>`_.

Open Issues
===========

(Add yours!)

Rejected Ideas
==============

Exporting a data pointer rather than a function
-----------------------------------------------

This proposes a new module export *function*, which is expected to
return static constant data.
That data could be exported directly as a data pointer.

With a function, we avoid dealing with a new kind of exported symbol.

A function also allows the extension to introspect its environment in a limited
way -- for example, to tailor the returned data to the current Python version.

Possible Future Directions
==========================

These ideas are out of scope for *this* proposal.

Improving slots in general
--------------------------

Slots -- and specifically the existing ``PyModuleDef_Slot`` -- do have a few
shortcomings. The most important are:

> - Type safety: ``void *`` is used for data poiners, function pointers

Author: ```suggestion
- Type safety: ``void *`` is used for data pointers, function pointers
```

  and small integers, requiring casting that is technically undefined
  behaviour in C -- but works in practice on all relevant architectures.
  (For example: ``Py_tp_doc`` marks a string; ``Py_mod_gil`` an integer.)

- Limited forward compatibility: if an extension provides a slot ID that's
  unknown to the current interpreter, module creation will fail.
  This makes it cumbersome to use “optional” features -- ones that should only
  take effect if the interpreter supports them.
  (The recently added slots ``Py_mod_gil`` and ``Py_mod_multiple_interpreters``
  are good examples.)

  A workaround is to check ``Py_Version`` in the export function,

>   and return a slot array suitable for the current interpreter.

Reviewer 2: Or, use `#ifdef Py_<slot>` or `#if PY_VERSION_HEX >= ...`.

Updating defaults
-----------------

With a new API, we could update defaults for the
``Py_mod_multiple_interpreters`` and ``Py_mod_gil`` slots.

The inittab
-----------

We'll need to allow ``PyModuleDef``-less slots in the inittab --
that is, add a new variant of ``PyImport_ExtendInittab``.
Should that be part of this PEP?

The inittab is used for embedding, where a common/stable ABI is not that
important. So, it might be OK to leave this to a later change.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- ``Py_mod_state_traverse`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_traverse``)
- ``Py_mod_state_clear`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_clear``)
- ``Py_mod_state_free`` (equivalent to ``PyModuleDef.m_free``)
- ``Py_mod_token`` (see above)

All this will be added to the Limited API.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================

If an existing module is ported to use the new mechanism, then
``PyModule_GetDef`` will start returning ``NULL`` for it.
(This matches ``PyModule_GetDef``'s current documentation.)
We claim that how a module was defined is an implementation detail of that
module, so this should not be considered a breaking change.

Similarly, ``PyType_GetModuleByDef`` will not match modules that are not
defined using a *def*.
The new ``PyType_GetModuleByToken`` function may be used instead.

The ``Py_mod_create`` function may now be called with ``NULL`` for the second
argument.
This could trip people porting from *def* to *slots*, so it needs to be
mentioned in porting notes.

Forward compatibility
---------------------

If a module defines the new export hook, CPython versions that implement this
PEP will ignore the traditional ``PyInit_*`` hook.

> Extensions that straddle vPython ersions are expected to define both hooks;

Author: ```suggestion
Extensions that straddle Python versions are expected to define both hooks;
```

some tricky edge cases.
It should be moved to a HOWTO in the documentation.

#. Scan your code for uses of ``PyModule_GetDef``. This function will
   return ``NULL`` for modules that use the new mechanism. Instead:

   * For getting the contents of the module's ``PyModuleDef``, use the C struct
     directly. Alternatively, get attributes from the module using, for
     example, ``PyModule_GetNameObject``, the ``__doc__`` attribute, and
     ``PyModule_GetStateSize``.
     (Note that Python code can mutate a module's attributes.)
   * For testing if a module object is “yours”, use ``PyModule_GetToken``
     instead.
     Later in this guide, you'll set the token to *be* the existing
     ``PyModuleDef`` structure.

#. Scan your code for uses of ``PyType_GetModuleByDef``, and replace them by
   ``PyType_GetModuleByToken``.
   Later in this guide, you'll set the token to *be* the existing
   ``PyModuleDef`` structure.

#. Look at the function identified by ``Py_mod_create``, if any.
   Make sure that it does not use its second argument (``PyModuleDef``),
   as it will be called with ``NULL``.
   Instead of the argument, use the existing ``PyModuleDef`` struct directly.

> #. If using multiple ``Py_mod_create`` slots, consolidate them: pick one of
>    the functions, or write a new one, and call the others from it.
>    Remove all but one ``Py_mod_create`` slots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. If using multiple ``Py_mod_exec`` slots, consolidate them: pick one of
   the functions, or write a new one, and call the others from it.
   Remove all but one ``Py_mod_exec`` slots.
```

#. Add slots for all members of the existing ``PyModuleDef`` structure.
   See :ref:`pep793-api-summary` for a list of the new slots.
   For example, to add a name and docstring:

   .. code-block:: c

    static PyModuleDef_Slot module_slots[] = {
        {Py_mod_name, "mymodule"},
        {Py_mod_doc, (char*)PyDoc_STR("my docstring")},
        // ... (keep existing slots here)
        {0}
    };

#. If you switched from ``PyModule_GetDef`` to ``PyModule_GetToken``,
   and/or from ``PyType_GetModuleByDef`` to ``PyType_GetModuleByToken``,
   add a ``Py_mod_token`` slot pointing to the existing ``PyModuleDef`` struct:

   .. code-block:: c

    static PyModuleDef_Slot module_slots[] = {
        // ... (keep existing slots here)
        {Py_mod_token, your_module_def},
        {0}
    };

#. Add a new export hook.

   .. code-block:: c

    PyMODEXPORT_FUNC PyModExport_examplemodule(PyObject);

    PyMODEXPORT_FUNC
    PyModExport_examplemodule(PyObject *spec)
    {
        return module_slots;
    }

The new export hook will be used on Python 3.15 and above.
Once your module no longer supports lower versions, delete the ``PyInit_``

> function and any unused data.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps mention that `Py_mod_token` can be deleted at this point?

Author: It was only added if it's used, so it would need a bigger clean-up -- and I think it's situation-specific (and rare) enough at this point that you should be looking at the code, not the guide.

  behaviour in C -- but works in practice on all relevant architectures.
  (For example: ``Py_tp_doc`` marks a string; ``Py_mod_gil`` an integer.)

- Limited forward compatibility: if an extension provides a slot ID that's
  unknown to the current interpreter, module creation will fail.
  This makes it cumbersome to use “optional” features -- ones that should only
  take effect if the interpreter supports them.
  (The recently added slots ``Py_mod_gil`` and ``Py_mod_multiple_interpreters``
  are good examples.)

  One workaround is to check ``Py_Version`` in the export function,
  and return a slot array suitable for the current interpreter.

Updating defaults
-----------------

With a new API, we could update defaults for the
``Py_mod_multiple_interpreters`` and ``Py_mod_gil`` slots.

The inittab
-----------

We'll need to allow ``PyModuleDef``-less slots in the inittab --
that is, add a new variant of ``PyImport_ExtendInittab``.
Should that be part of this PEP?

The inittab is used for embedding, where a common/stable ABI is not that
important. So, it might be OK to leave this to a later change.

Footnotes
=========

> .. [#multiexec] A `quick survey <https://github.com/python/peps/pull/4435/files#r2105731314>`_
>    of multiple ``Py_mod_exec`` slots found zero uses in the top 15,000 PyPI
>    projects, and three in the stardard library (including tests for the
>    feature).
>    The easy workaround is consolidating the ``exec`` functions; see
>    :ref:`pep793-porting-notes` for details.

Reviewer 2: The link doesn't seem to work for me?
```suggestion
.. [#multiexec] A `quick survey`_ of multiple ``Py_mod_exec`` slots found zero
   uses in the top 15,000 PyPI projects, and three in the stardard library
   (including tests for the feature).
   The easy workaround is consolidating the ``exec`` functions; see
   :ref:`pep793-porting-notes` for details.
   
   .. _quick survey: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/4435#discussion_r2105731314
```
